apps/docs/content/docs/feature-flags/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
tags: Basestack Feature Flags, Quick Start, Feature Flags Management, Self-Hosting Platform, Hosting Solution, Feature Flag Management Platform, Effortless Method, Quick Setup, Self-Hosted Feature Flags, Overview, Feature Toggles, Feature Flagging Platform, Host Your Own Feature Flags, Feature Flag Implementation, Simplified Feature Management
---
import { Triangle, Code } from 'lucide-react';

<Callout type="warning">
  The project is currently in preview, and while some elements may evolve based
  on feedback, its core functionality is production-ready. Keep an eye out for
  updates and changes, as there may be alterations to your instance that could
  potentially cause disruptions.
</Callout>

Basestack Feature Flags is a self-hosting platform that provides an effortless method to host your very own Feature Flags management platform. By leveraging services like [Vercel ↗](https://vercel.com/?ref=basestack.co), any developer, whether an indie or startup, gains full control over their features and data. Ultimately, the platform is housed in your account, under your management, giving you complete control over your data.

Quickly self-host the Feature Flags Platform on your desired infrastructure. Choose one of the available official guides below, with more coming soon.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<Triangle />}
    title="Vercel"
    href="/docs/self-hosting/providers/deploy-vercel"
  >
    Deploy the Feature Flags Platform on Vercel.
  </Card>
</Cards>

### Fork the Platform

Alternatively, you have the option to manually fork the [Basestack Platform repository](https://github.com/basestack-co/basestack). This provides greater control over [updates](/docs/self-hosting/updates) and even allows you to [contribute](/docs/self-hosting/contributing) to the project if desired.

<Callout type="info">
  For more comprehensive information about the deployment process, please check
  out the [Configuration Page](/docs/feature-flags/deployment). This page provides
  detailed guidance to ensure a successful and seamless deployment of the
  Feature Flags Platform.
</Callout>

## SDK´s

After hosting our Feature Flags Platform, take a look at the official SDKs designed to accelerate feature releases in your products.

<Cards>

  <Card
    icon={<Code />}
    title="JavaScript & NodeJS"
    href="/docs/feature-flags/sdks/javascript"
  >
    Integrate feature flagging into your JavaScript or NodeJS applications with our easy-to-use SDK.
  </Card>
  <Card
    icon={<Code />}
    title="React & NextJS"
    href="/docs/feature-flags/sdks/react"
  >
    Integrate feature flagging into your React or NextJS applications with our easy-to-use SDK.
  </Card>
    <Card
        icon={<Code />}
        title="REST API"
        href="/docs/feature-flags/sdks/rest-api"
    >
      Use our REST API to integrate feature flagging into your applications.
    </Card>
</Cards>

## Need Help?

Explore our collection of useful questions and answers about the Platform on our [FAQs Page](/docs/self-hosting/faqs).

Commit message:

chore: Update documentation links to use new content structure, remove deprecated files, and adjust home page redirect

apps/docs/content/docs/feature-flags/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
tags: Basestack Feature Flags, Quick Start, Feature Flags Management, Self-Hosting Platform, Hosting Solution, Feature Flag Management Platform, Effortless Method, Quick Setup, Self-Hosted Feature Flags, Overview, Feature Toggles, Feature Flagging Platform, Host Your Own Feature Flags, Feature Flag Implementation, Simplified Feature Management
---
import { Triangle, Code } from 'lucide-react';

<Callout type="warning">
  The project is currently in preview, and while some elements may evolve based
  on feedback, its core functionality is production-ready. Keep an eye out for
  updates and changes, as there may be alterations to your instance that could
  potentially cause disruptions.
</Callout>

Basestack Feature Flags is a self-hosting platform that provides an effortless method to host your very own Feature Flags management platform. By leveraging services like [Vercel ↗](https://vercel.com/?ref=basestack.co), any developer, whether an indie or startup, gains full control over their features and data. Ultimately, the platform is housed in your account, under your management, giving you complete control over your data.

Quickly self-host the Feature Flags Platform on your desired infrastructure. Choose one of the available official guides below, with more coming soon.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<Triangle />}
    title="Vercel"
    href="/content/self-hosting/providers/deploy-vercel"
  >
    Deploy the Feature Flags Platform on Vercel.
  </Card>
</Cards>

### Fork the Platform

Alternatively, you have the option to manually fork the [Basestack Platform repository](https://github.com/basestack-co/basestack). This provides greater control over [updates](/content/self-hosting/updates) and even allows you to [contribute](/content/self-hosting/contributing) to the project if desired.

<Callout type="info">
  For more comprehensive information about the deployment process, please check
  out the [Configuration Page](/content/self-hosting). This page provides
  detailed guidance to ensure a successful and seamless deployment of the
  Feature Flags Platform.
</Callout>

## SDKs

After hosting our Feature Flags Platform, take a look at the official SDKs designed to accelerate feature releases in your products.

<Cards>

  <Card
    icon={<Code />}
    title="JavaScript & NodeJS"
    href="/content/feature-flags/sdks/javascript"
  >
    Integrate feature flagging into your JavaScript or NodeJS applications with our easy-to-use SDK.
  </Card>
  <Card
    icon={<Code />}
    title="React & NextJS"
    href="/content/feature-flags/sdks/react"
  >
    Integrate feature flagging into your React or NextJS applications with our easy-to-use SDK.
  </Card>
    <Card
        icon={<Code />}
        title="REST API"
        href="/content/feature-flags/sdks/rest-api"
    >
      Use our REST API to integrate feature flagging into your applications.
    </Card>
</Cards>

## Need Help?

Explore our collection of useful questions and answers about the Platform on our [FAQs Page](/content/self-hosting/faqs).
