apps/docs/pages/feature-flags/sdks/javascript.mdx, before:

---
title: Basestack Feature Flags - Installing JavaScript SDK
description: Learn how to install JavaScript SDK
tags: Basestack, Feature Flags, JavaScript, SDK, Vanilla, Node, TypeScript, State Management, Async, Flags, Flag, Initialize, Methods, Reference, Examples
---

import { Steps, Callout } from "nextra/components";

# JavaScript & Node SDK Reference

Seamless integration with JavaScript/NodeJS streamlines the testing and development of features across production and various environments. This SDK effortlessly integrates into any JavaScript-based environment, allowing you to leverage this capability in projects like Vue, Svelte, or other JavaScript frameworks.

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  We only support ESM (ECMAScript Modules) in the browser or server environment.
  If you are using CommonJS, you will need to use a bundler like
  [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/?ref=basestack.co) or
  [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/?ref=basestack.co) to bundle your code.
</Callout>

## Getting started

<Steps>
  ### Install

First, let's install some packages!

```sh copy npm2yarn
npm i @basestack/flags-js
```

or with Script Tag

```js copy
<script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/@basestack/flags-js"></script>
```

### Create a new instance

You can find these parameter values in your project's settings

```js copy filename="main.js"
import { FlagsSDK } from "@basestack/flags-js";

// Basic Initialization
const client = new FlagsSDK({
  projectKey: "your-project-key",
  environmentKey: "your-environment-key",
});

// Custom Configuration Example
const advancedClient = new FlagsSDK({
  baseURL: "https://your-basestack-hosted-app-domain.com/api/v1",
  projectKey: "your-project-key",
  environmentKey: "your-environment-key",
  preloadFlags: ["header", "footer"],
  cache: {
    enabled: true,
    ttl: 10 * 60 * 1000, // 10-minute cache
    maxSize: 50, // Limit cache to 50 entries
  },
});
```

That's it! Your app is now fully equipped to leverage feature flags and other powerful functionalities. To make the most of Basestack's capabilities, simply follow the instructions provided in the supported methods documentation.

### Usage

```jsx copy filename="main.js"
import { FlagsSDK } from "@basestack/flags-js";

const client = new FlagsSDK({
  projectKey: "your-project-key",
  environmentKey: "your-environment-key",
});

// Preload flags on initialization (optional)
// This will fetch the flags and cache them for future use
// But you can still fetch flags on-demand using getFlag()
await client.init();

// Fetching a Single Flag
async function checkFeatureFlag() {
  try {
    const headerFlag = await client.getFlag("header");

    if (headerFlag.enabled) {
      console.log("Header feature is enabled");
      console.log("Payload:", headerFlag.payload);
      // Additional flag properties
    } else {
      console.log("Header feature is disabled");
    }
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Failed to fetch flag:", error);
  }
}

// Fetching All Flags
async function listAllFlags() {
  try {
    const { flags } = await client.getAllFlags();

    flags.forEach((flag) => {
      console.log(`Flag: ${flag.slug}`);
      console.log(`Enabled: ${flag.enabled}`);
      console.log(`Description: ${flag.description}`);
      // Additional flag properties
    });
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Failed to fetch flags:", error);
  }
}

// Cache Management
function manageCaching() {
  // Clear entire cache
  client.clearCache();

  // Clear cache for a specific flag
  client.clearFlagCache("header");
}

// Practical Example

async function renderFeature() {
  try {
    const headerFlag = await client.getFlag("new-header-design");

    if (headerFlag.enabled) {
      // Render new header design
      renderNewHeader(headerFlag.payload);
    } else {
      // Render default header
      renderDefaultHeader();
    }
  } catch (error) {
    // Fallback to default implementation
    renderDefaultHeader();
  }
}
```

</Steps>

## Server Implementation

In a server environment like Node or Serverless, you can use the SDK as usual because it uses the Fetch API, which is supported in Node.js.

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">
  The Fetch API is available in Node.js starting from version 18.0.0.
</Callout>

If your project uses a Node version earlier than 18, you will need to modify the Fetch API implementation, which is supported by our SDK.

Here is an example using [cross-fetch](https://github.com/lquixada/cross-fetch?ref=basestack.co) as the Fetch API implementation:

```js copy filename="main.js"
import fetch from "cross-fetch";
import { FlagsSDK } from "@basestack/flags-js";

// Initialize FlagsSDK with cross-fetch as fetch implementation
const client = new FlagsSDK({
  projectKey: "your-project-key",
  environmentKey: "your-environment-key",
  fetchImpl: fetch,
});
```

Here is an example using [Axios](https://axios-http.com/?ref=basestack.co) as the Fetch API implementation:

```js copy filename="main.js"
import axios from 'axios';
import { FlagsSDK } from '@basestack/flags-js';

// Axios wrapper to match fetch API signature
const axiosFetch: typeof fetch = async (input, init) => {
  const { method, headers, body } = init || {};
  const response = await axios({
    url: input.toString(),
    method,
    headers,
    data: body,
  });

  return new Response(JSON.stringify(response.data), {
    status: response.status,
    statusText: response.statusText,
    headers: response.headers,
  });
};

// Initialize FlagsSDK with axios as fetch implementation
const client = new FlagsSDK({
  projectKey: 'your-project-key',
  environmentKey: 'your-environment-key',
  fetchImpl: axiosFetch,
});
```

## TypeScript Support

The SDK is built with TypeScript. Therefore, when used in a TypeScript project, it comes with basic type inference out of the box.

```js copy filename="main.ts"
/** Configuration for caching mechanism */
export interface CacheConfig {
  /** Enable or disable caching (default: true) */
  enabled?: boolean;
  /** Time-to-Live for cache entries in milliseconds (default: 5 minutes) */
  ttl?: number;
  /** Maximum number of cache entries (default: 100) */
  maxSize?: number;
}

/** SDK Configuration Options */
export interface SDKConfig {
  /** Base URL for the feature flag service (optional) */
  baseURL?: string;
  /** Project identification key (required) */
  projectKey: string;
  /** Environment identification key (required) */
  environmentKey: string;
  /** Caching configuration options */
  cache?: CacheConfig;
  /** Custom fetch implementation (optional) */
  fetchImpl?: typeof fetch;
  /** Flags to preload during initialization */
  preloadFlags?: string[];
}

/** Feature flag data structure */
export interface Flag {
  slug: string;
  enabled: boolean;
  payload?: unknown;
  expiredAt?: Date | null;
  createdAt: Date;
  updatedAt: Date;
  description: string;
  error?: boolean;
}
```

## SDK Reference

## Initialisation options

| Property           | Type     | Description                                                     | Required | Default Value                     |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------- |
| `baseURL           | string   | Specifies the target URL to point to.                           | false    | https://flags.basestack.co/api/v1 |
| `projectKey`       | string   | Specifies the project to retrieve data from.                    | true     | null                              |
| `envKey`           | string   | Specifies the project environment from which to retrieve flags. | true     | null                              |
| `preloadFlags`     | string[] | List of flags to preload during initialization.                 | false    | []                                |
| `cache -> enabled` | boolean  | Enables or disables caching of flags.                           | false    | true                              |
| `cache -> ttl`     | number   | Time-to-live for cached flags in milliseconds.                  | false    | 5 \* 60 \* 1000                   |
| `cache -> maxSize` | number   | Maximum number of flags to store in the cache.                  | false    | 100                               |

## Available Methods

| Property                                    | Description                                                  | Environment                 |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| `init() => Promise<void>`                   | Initiates the flags request, enabling caching capabilities.  | Browser & Node & Serverless |
| `clearCache(): void`                        | Clears all cached flags.                                     | Browser & Node & Serverless |
| `clearFlagCache(slug: string): void`        | Clears the cache for a specific flag identified by the slug. | Browser & Node & Serverless |
| `getFlag(slug: string): Promise<Flag>`      | Retrieves a specific flag by its slug.                       | Browser & Node & Serverless |
| `getAllFlags(): Promise<{ flags: Flag[] }>` | Retrieves all flags.                                         | Browser & Node & Serverless |

Commit message:

chore: update JavaScript and React SDK documentation with examples and environment variable guidance

apps/docs/pages/feature-flags/sdks/javascript.mdx, after:

---
title: Basestack Feature Flags - Installing JavaScript SDK
description: Learn how to install JavaScript SDK
tags: Basestack, Feature Flags, JavaScript, SDK, Vanilla, Node, TypeScript, State Management, Async, Flags, Flag, Initialize, Methods, Reference, Examples
---

import { Steps, Callout } from "nextra/components";

# JavaScript & Node SDK Reference (v1.0.3)

Seamless integration with JavaScript/NodeJS streamlines the testing and development of features across production and various environments. This SDK effortlessly integrates into any JavaScript-based environment, allowing you to leverage this capability in projects like Vue, Svelte, or other JavaScript frameworks.

## Getting started

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  We only support ESM (ECMAScript Modules) in the browser or server environment.
  If you are using CommonJS, you will need to use a bundler like
  [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/?ref=basestack.co) or
  [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/?ref=basestack.co) to bundle your code.
</Callout>

#### Examples

- [Hono + NodeJS](https://github.com/basestack-co/examples/tree/main/feature-flags/hono)
- [Vanilla + TypeScript + Vite](https://github.com/basestack-co/examples/tree/main/feature-flags/vanilla-ts)

<Steps>
  ### Install

First, let's install some packages!

```sh copy npm2yarn
npm install @basestack/flags-js
```

or with Script Tag

```js copy
<script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/@basestack/flags-js"></script>
```

### Environment Variables

Here are the example environment variables needed for this guide. Feel free to rename them according to your project's requirements:

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  When it comes to environment variables, pay attention to the framework you're
  using. For example, `NEXT_PUBLIC_` is specific to Next.js, while in
  [Vite.js](https://vite.dev/?ref=basestack.co), it would be `VITE_`. Example
  `VITE_FEATURE_FLAGS_BASE_URL=` or Node.js `FEATURE_FLAGS_BASE_URL=`
</Callout>

```bash copy filename=".env"
# BASESTACK FEATURE FLAGS
FEATURE_FLAGS_BASE_URL="https://flags.basestack.co//api/v1" # or your own URL
FEATURE_FLAGS_PROJECT_KEY=""
FEATURE_FLAGS_ENVIRONMENT_KEY=""
```

### Create a new instance

You can find these parameter values in your project's settings

```js copy filename="main.js"
import { FlagsSDK } from "@basestack/flags-js";

// Basic Initialization
const client = new FlagsSDK({
  projectKey: "your-project-key",
  environmentKey: "your-environment-key",
});

// Custom Configuration Example
const advancedClient = new FlagsSDK({
  baseURL: "https://your-basestack-hosted-app-domain.com/api/v1",
  projectKey: "your-project-key",
  environmentKey: "your-environment-key",
  preloadFlags: ["header", "footer"],
  cache: {
    enabled: true,
    ttl: 10 * 60 * 1000, // 10-minute cache
    maxSize: 50, // Limit cache to 50 entries
  },
});
```

That's it! Your app is now fully equipped to leverage feature flags and other powerful functionalities. To make the most of Basestack's capabilities, simply follow the instructions provided in the supported methods documentation.

### Usage

```jsx copy filename="main.js"
import { FlagsSDK } from "@basestack/flags-js";

const client = new FlagsSDK({
  projectKey: "your-project-key",
  environmentKey: "your-environment-key",
});

// Preload flags on initialization (optional)
// This will fetch the flags and cache them for future use
// But you can still fetch flags on-demand using getFlag()
await client.init();

// Fetching a Single Flag
async function checkFeatureFlag() {
  try {
    const headerFlag = await client.getFlag("header");

    if (headerFlag.enabled) {
      console.log("Header feature is enabled");
      console.log("Payload:", headerFlag.payload);
      // Additional flag properties
    } else {
      console.log("Header feature is disabled");
    }
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Failed to fetch flag:", error);
  }
}

// Fetching All Flags
async function listAllFlags() {
  try {
    const { flags } = await client.getAllFlags();

    flags.forEach((flag) => {
      console.log(`Flag: ${flag.slug}`);
      console.log(`Enabled: ${flag.enabled}`);
      console.log(`Description: ${flag.description}`);
      // Additional flag properties
    });
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Failed to fetch flags:", error);
  }
}

// Cache Management
function manageCaching() {
  // Clear entire cache
  client.clearCache();

  // Clear cache for a specific flag
  client.clearFlagCache("header");
}

// Practical Example

async function renderFeature() {
  try {
    const headerFlag = await client.getFlag("new-header-design");

    if (headerFlag.enabled) {
      // Render new header design
      renderNewHeader(headerFlag.payload);
    } else {
      // Render default header
      renderDefaultHeader();
    }
  } catch (error) {
    // Fallback to default implementation
    renderDefaultHeader();
  }
}
```

</Steps>

## Server Implementation

In a server environment like Node or Serverless, you can use the SDK as usual because it uses the Fetch API, which is supported in Node.js.

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">
  The Fetch API is available in Node.js starting from version 18.0.0.
</Callout>

If your project uses a Node version earlier than 18, you will need to modify the Fetch API implementation, which is supported by our SDK.

Here is an example using [cross-fetch](https://github.com/lquixada/cross-fetch?ref=basestack.co) as the Fetch API implementation:

```js copy filename="main.js"
import fetch from "cross-fetch";
import { FlagsSDK } from "@basestack/flags-js";

// Initialize FlagsSDK with cross-fetch as fetch implementation
const client = new FlagsSDK({
  projectKey: "your-project-key",
  environmentKey: "your-environment-key",
  fetchImpl: fetch,
});
```

Here is an example using [Axios](https://axios-http.com/?ref=basestack.co) as the Fetch API implementation:

```js copy filename="main.js"
import axios from 'axios';
import { FlagsSDK } from '@basestack/flags-js';

// Axios wrapper to match fetch API signature
const axiosFetch: typeof fetch = async (input, init) => {
  const { method, headers, body } = init || {};
  const response = await axios({
    url: input.toString(),
    method,
    headers,
    data: body,
  });

  return new Response(JSON.stringify(response.data), {
    status: response.status,
    statusText: response.statusText,
    headers: response.headers,
  });
};

// Initialize FlagsSDK with axios as fetch implementation
const client = new FlagsSDK({
  projectKey: 'your-project-key',
  environmentKey: 'your-environment-key',
  fetchImpl: axiosFetch,
});
```

## TypeScript Support

The SDK is built with TypeScript. Therefore, when used in a TypeScript project, it comes with basic type inference out of the box.

```js copy filename="main.ts"
/** Configuration for caching mechanism */
export interface CacheConfig {
  /** Enable or disable caching (default: true) */
  enabled?: boolean;
  /** Time-to-Live for cache entries in milliseconds (default: 5 minutes) */
  ttl?: number;
  /** Maximum number of cache entries (default: 100) */
  maxSize?: number;
}

/** SDK Configuration Options */
export interface SDKConfig {
  /** Base URL for the feature flag service (optional) */
  baseURL?: string;
  /** Project identification key (required) */
  projectKey: string;
  /** Environment identification key (required) */
  environmentKey: string;
  /** Caching configuration options */
  cache?: CacheConfig;
  /** Custom fetch implementation (optional) */
  fetchImpl?: typeof fetch;
  /** Flags to preload during initialization */
  preloadFlags?: string[];
}

/** Feature flag data structure */
export interface Flag {
  slug: string;
  enabled: boolean;
  payload?: unknown;
  expiredAt?: Date | null;
  createdAt: Date;
  updatedAt: Date;
  description: string;
  error?: boolean;
}
```

## SDK Reference

## Initialisation options

| Property           | Type     | Description                                                     | Required | Default Value                     |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------- |
| `baseURL           | string   | Specifies the target URL to point to.                           | false    | https://flags.basestack.co/api/v1 |
| `projectKey`       | string   | Specifies the project to retrieve data from.                    | true     | null                              |
| `envKey`           | string   | Specifies the project environment from which to retrieve flags. | true     | null                              |
| `preloadFlags`     | string[] | List of flags to preload during initialization.                 | false    | []                                |
| `cache -> enabled` | boolean  | Enables or disables caching of flags.                           | false    | true                              |
| `cache -> ttl`     | number   | Time-to-live for cached flags in milliseconds.                  | false    | 5 \* 60 \* 1000                   |
| `cache -> maxSize` | number   | Maximum number of flags to store in the cache.                  | false    | 100                               |

## Available Methods

| Property                                    | Description                                                  | Environment                 |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| `init() => Promise<void>`                   | Initiates the flags request, enabling caching capabilities.  | Browser & Node & Serverless |
| `clearCache(): void`                        | Clears all cached flags.                                     | Browser & Node & Serverless |
| `clearFlagCache(slug: string): void`        | Clears the cache for a specific flag identified by the slug. | Browser & Node & Serverless |
| `getFlag(slug: string): Promise<Flag>`      | Retrieves a specific flag by its slug.                       | Browser & Node & Serverless |
| `getAllFlags(): Promise<{ flags: Flag[] }>` | Retrieves all flags.                                         | Browser & Node & Serverless |
